# **Why ADAPT?**

## 1.1 Rationale <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

An enabling policy environment is a key condition for sustainable
development. Even amidst the growing calls for evidence-based policy
making and a tentative shift towards data-driven development planning,
many developing countries continue to lack policies that are adequately
informed by evidence and data. Conversely, some data needs are not
sufficiently driven or articulated by policy priorities, thus implying a
lack of integration between data systems and policy processes. The data
revolution and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)[1] provide an
incredible opportunity for low-income countries to participate in global
development objectives, and may also help to mobilise resources and
develop statistical capacity. However, many countries continue to face
great obstacles in planning, measuring and reporting their own national
indicators, and therefore encounter even greater challenges when
attempting to address the SDGs.

PARIS21 has developed the Advanced Data Planning Tool (ADAPT), an
innovative web-based planning tool that National Statistical Offices
(NSOs) and other data producers can use to adapt their data production
to the priority data needs of policy makers and to adjust data plans to
individual priorities of choice.

In the context of ADAPT, demand refers to the data required by public
policies. In other words, data are seen as a product for which demand is
expressed explicitly or implicitly in policy documents. ADAPT aims to
improve the data market by better adapting data supply and the
underlying production processes to meet the demand.

<span id="_Toc7208960" class="anchor"></span>Box 1 – Did You Know! Why
does data planning still matter today?

Governments must have an overall vision of the development of their
National Statistical Systems (NSSs) to ensure that their data needs are
met in a sustained and quality-controlled way. Data planning regards the
prioritisation of data demands, which should be met – adjusting
timeframes, budgets, skills, capacities and institutional
responsibilities – in an environment that is constantly changing due to
the traction of data, technological, institutional and legal
innovations. As for all functions of government, it is essential that
the various data systems constituting the NSS continue to improve their
efficiency and productivity to remain relevant, especially when
competition on data markets has never been stronger. Data planning is
key to efficient data systems.
