### 3.2.2. Setting up translations

ADAPT is currently available in English, French and Spanish. Arabic,
Chinese and Russian versions will be added in due course.

The ADAPT interface may also be translated into languages other than
Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. Select the
intended language by accessing *Site Administration* and then clicking
on *Translations* -&gt; *Language* -&gt; *Languages*. If your chosen
language is not in the list, send an inquiry to PARIS21.

Once you have select the intended language for translation by adding a
check mark next to the language (*Translations* -&gt; *Language*-&gt;
*Languages* under *Site Administration*), the option to switch languages
will appear in the top right-hand corner.

<span id="_Toc7208818" class="anchor"></span>Figure 15: Setting up
languages in ADAPT

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image14.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.58472in" />

ADAPT is now ready for translation.

The entire ADAPT interface can be translated under two items, listed
under *Site Administration* -&gt; *Translations*. The items are *Labels*
and *Menu Items*, as shown below.

<span id="_Toc7208819" class="anchor"></span>Figure 16: Translating
*Labels* and *Menu Items* in ADAPT

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image15.png" style="width:1.86458in;height:3.60834in" />

The *Labels* tool enables translation of various forms in ADAPT. The
*Menu Items* tab enables translation of the various menus (described in
[Section 4](#_ADAPT_Menus) of this manual).

For *Labels*, clicking on the *Edit* button allows you to edit the items
in their language of choice.

<span id="_Toc7208820" class="anchor"></span>Figure 17: Labels in ADAPT
translation – a first glance

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image16.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.11319in" />

After translating the labels, which are in a one-to-one correspondence
with the English version, clicking on the *Save* button will save the
changes.

<span id="_Toc7208821" class="anchor"></span>Figure 18: Editing and
saving labels for ADAPT translation

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image17.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.90694in" />

For *Menu Items*, clicking on the *Edit* button in the selected menu
allows you to edit the items in the language of choice, as shown below.
Clicking on the *Save* button will save the changes.

<span id="_Toc7208822" class="anchor"></span>Figure 19: Menu items in
ADAPT translation

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image18.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.11319in" />

Once the labels and menu items have been translated, the translated
content must be input in your language of choice. This enables
translation of ADAPT’s interface and content.

<span id="_Toc7208823" class="anchor"></span>Figure 20: Translating the
ADAPT content

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image19.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.62569in" />