## 3.3 Users, roles and permissions <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

## 3.3.1 User roles <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

This section describes the content of the *Users* section of ADAPT. In
ADAPT, users are assigned predefined roles. Roles are a set of
permissions that are grouped together. Thus, ADAPT users inherit their
individual permissions to perform certain actions on the ADAPT site from
the roles to which they are assigned. The list of users may also be
downloaded directly in CSV or Excel formats.

By default, ADAPT provides four predefined roles for all authenticated
users (that is, users who are signed in):

> 1\. Administrator
>
> 2\. Editor (forthcoming)
>
> 3\. Contributor
>
> 4\. Subscriber

***Administrator***

In a specific instance of ADAPT, Administrators are able to perform
every task available through *Site Administration* and *Users*,
including changing other usersâ€™ roles. Administrators also have complete
control over all content. Although there may be multiple Administrators
on a single ADAPT instance, this role should be reserved only to those
who truly require full access.

***Editor***

Editors can access all content in an ADAPT instance to view, edit or
delete. Editors are also able to create new content. However, Editors do
not have access to tasks that are available through *Site
Administration* and *Users*. They can only modify their own account
information*.*

***Contributor***

Contributors can create, edit or delete their own content. They cannot
edit or delete content created by another user, although they are able
to view content created by other users. Like Editors, Contributors
cannot access tasks available through *Site Administration* and *Users*.
They can only modify their own account information (Name, Email and
Password).

### Subscriber 

Subscribers can view all content, but do not have any other permissions.
Subscribers are able to modify their own account information (Name,
Email and Password). In ADAPT, all new users are assigned the Subscriber
role by default.

<span id="_Toc7208843" class="anchor"></span>Figure 40: Setting up users

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image41.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.20319in" />
