### 3.3.2 Managing user accounts or profiles <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

This section explains how to reset and change your password and how to
edit user profiles.

#### Resetting your password

If you are the account owner and you have forgotten your sign-in
password, you can reset it by performing the following steps:

1.  Load the URL of the ADAPT instance into a web browser.

2.  Click *Forgot your password* in the sign-in window.

3.  In the resulting page, enter the email ID used to create your ADAPT
    account and click on the *Send Password Reset Link Back* button.

4.  You will receive an email with a link to reset your password.

5.  Open the email and click the link.

6.  Enter a new password in the resulting interface and then confirm it.

7.  Click on *Reset password*.

8.  Go back to your ADAPT login page and log in with your new password.

<span id="_Toc7208844" class="anchor"></span>Figure 41: Resetting your
password<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image42.png" style="width:6.29838in;height:2.47674in" />

#### Changing your password

If you know your password and can use it to sign in to your account, you
can change your password by performing the following steps (it is
understood that you are already signed in):

1.  Click your name on the top right-hand corner of the screen.

2.  In the resulting profile form, below *Leave blank if you don’t want
    to change the password*, enter your current password, and then type
    a new password.

3.  Click on the *Save* button.

#### Editing your user profile

To edit or add additional information (such as organisation or
department) in your user profile, perform the following steps (it is
understood that you are already signed in):

1.  Click on your name on the top right-hand corner of the screen.

2.  In the resulting profile form, to add the organisation and the
    department, you may select the corresponding organisation and
    department from the respective drop-down lists. You may recall that
    these were entered previously under *Configuration Settings*.

3.  Click on the *Save* button.

<span id="_Toc7208845" class="anchor"></span>Figure 42: Changing your
password or editing your user profile

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image43.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.17172in" />

#### Adding a new user

To add a new user in an ADAPT instance, click on *Users* on the top
right-hand corner of the screen. In the resulting page, click *+Add
User* button. Enter the new user account details (group, organisation,
department, name, email and password) in the relevant fields. Then,
click on the *Save* button to store the information entered.

<span id="_Toc7208846" class="anchor"></span>Figure 43: Adding a new
user

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image44.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.08132in" />

#### Editing another user’s profile

To edit or update a user profile in an ADAPT instance, click on *Users*
on the top right-hand corner of the screen. In the resulting page, click
on the *Edit* button next to the target user. Enter or edit the user
profile details (organisation, department and roles) in the relevant
fields. Then, click on the *Save* button.

#### Removing a user

To delete a user profile in an ADAPT instance, click on *Users* on
the top right-hand corner of the screen. In the resulting page, click on
the *Delete* button next to the target user. Then, confirm the action in
the dialogue box that appears.

<span id="_Toc7208847" class="anchor"></span>Figure 44: Removing a user

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image41.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:2.20278in" />

<span id="_ADAPT_Menus" class="anchor"></span>
