## **Annexes** <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

## 5.1   Glossary of terms <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

Please note:

-   In most instances, the definition is derived from statistical
    standards developed by international organisations such as the IMF,
    OECD, Eurostat and ILO. Where possible, the definition has been
    quoted verbatim from the source.

-   The sources mentioned refer to the source for the definition
    included in the Glossary. This may or may not be the original source
    for the definition itself.

<table class="tables">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th><strong>Sl. No.</strong></th>
            <th><strong>Term</strong></th>
            <th><strong>Definition</strong></th>
            <th><strong>Where it appears in ADAPT</strong></th>
            <th><strong>Reference</strong></th>
            <th><strong>Link</strong></th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>1</td>
            <td>Activities</td>
            <td>Actions taken or work performed to transform inputs into outputs. It is the second level in the <strong>results chain framework (see Glossary, below)</strong> used by ADAPT.</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p><p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
            <td>OECD DAC</td>
            <td><p><a href="https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf">https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</a></p></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2</td>
            <td>Active logframe</td>
            <td><strong>Logframe (see Glossary, below)</strong> that is relevant for the current time period, or “active” as of the present day.</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>3</td>
            <td>Administrator</td>
            <td>One of the four predefined roles available in ADAPT for all authenticated users (users who are signed in). Administrators can perform every task available through <em>Site Administration</em> and <em>Users</em>, including changing other users’ roles. Administrators also have complete control over all content. Although there can be multiple administrators on a single ADAPT instance, this role should be reserved to those who genuinely need full access.</td>
            <td>1) Users -&gt; Users Management</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>4</td>
            <td>Census</td>
            <td>A census – a <strong>data source category (see Glossary, below)</strong> – is a survey conducted on the full set of observation objects belonging to a given population or universe.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
            <td>OECD Glossary</td>
            <td><p><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=301">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=301</a></p></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>5</td>
            <td>COFOG</td>
            <td>The Classification of the Functions of Government (COFOG) was developed in 1999 by OECD and published by UNSD as a standard classifying the purposes of government activities. In ADAPT, the classification is also used to denote the sector coverage of policies, logframes, indicators, data sources and data plans. Ten broad sectors are characterised by COFOG: General public services, Defence, Public order and safety, Economic affairs, Environmental protection, Housing and community amenities, Health, Recreation, culture and religion, Education, and Social protection</td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand Information/Identification -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>4) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>5) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Sector Coverage</p></td>
            <td>UNSD</td>
            <td><p><a href="https://unstats.un.org/unsd/publication/SeriesM/SeriesM_84E.pdf">https://unstats.un.org/unsd/publication/SeriesM/SeriesM_84E.pdf</a> (see pp. 35–74)</p></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>6</td>
            <td>Collection</td>
            <td><strong>This is different from data collection (see Glossary, below)</strong>. In the context of ADAPT, collection refers to a group of indicators with shared element(s), as uniquely predefined by an Administrator under the <em>Site Administration</em> menu. For instance, a Collection defined as "Rural development" might group indicators relating to health, security, agriculture and other sectors relevant to rural development. Collections are a way for ADAPT users to club together indicators in a cross-cutting manner, beyond traditional groupings such as geographic levels or sectoral coverage.</td>
            <td><p>1) Site Administration -&gt; Libraries -&gt; Indicator Collection</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand Information /Identification -&gt; Collection</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>7</td>
            <td>Compliance</td>
            <td>The extent to which a produced indicator matches the specified metadata of a required indicator. In ADAPT, compliance is observed on three criteria: Frequency, Disaggregation and Geographic level of representativeness.</td>
            <td>1) Indicators -&gt; Compliance</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>8</td>
            <td>Contributor</td>
            <td>One of the four predefined roles available in ADAPT for all authenticated users (users who are signed in). Contributors can create, edit or delete their own content. They cannot create, edit or delete content created by any other user, although they can view another user’s content. Like Editors, users with the role of Contributor cannot access tasks available through <em>Site Administration</em> and <em>Users</em>, except the ability to modify their account information (name, email and password).</td>
            <td>1) Users -&gt; Users Management</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>9</td>
            <td>CT-GAP</td>
            <td>Prepared by the High-level Group for Partnership, Coordination and Capacity-Building for Statistics for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Cape Town Global Action Plan for Sustainable Development Data was informally launched at the first UN World Data Forum on 15 January 2017, held in Cape Town (South Africa). It was adopted by the United Nations Statistical Commission at its Forty-Eighth Session in March 2017.  The Plan calls for a commitment by governments, policy leaders and the international community to undertake key actions under six strategic areas, including: coordination and leadership; innovation and modernisation of national statistical systems; dissemination of data on sustainable development; building partnerships; and mobilising resources. ADAPT allows for the mapping of activities in data plans with global (for example, CT-GAP) or regional frameworks.</td>
            <td>Site Administration -&gt; Libraries -&gt; Logframes -&gt; Global -&gt; CT-GAP</td>
            <td>UNSD</td>
            <td><p><a href="https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/hlg/Cape-Town-Global-Action-Plan/">https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/hlg/Cape-Town-Global-Action-Plan/</a></p></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>Data Collection</td>
            <td>Data collection is the process of gathering data. Under the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below)</strong>, <em>Collect</em> refers to the fourth phase, which involves gathering all necessary information (data and metadata), using different collection modes (including extractions from statistical, administrative and other non-statistical registers and databases), and loading them into the appropriate environment for further processing. The Collect phase is further broken down into four subprocesses: Create frame and select sample; Set up collection; Run collection; and Finalize collection.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Institutions -&gt; Choose role</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td>OECD Glossary, UNECE</td>
            <td><p><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=534">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=534;</a></p><p><a href="https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model">https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model;</a></p><a href="https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf">https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf</a></p></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>11</td>
            <td>Data Compilation</td>
            <td>Data compilation refers to the preparation of data for analysis, producing intermediate outputs and final statistical results that are ready for dissemination. Under the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below),</strong> this could be understood as a combination of the fifth and sixth phases, <em>Process</em> and <em>Analyse</em>, respectively. Process describes the cleaning of data and their preparation for analysis. It is made up of subprocesses that check, clean and transform input data, so that they can be analysed and disseminated as statistical outputs. Under <em>Analyse</em>, statistical outputs are produced, examined in detail and made ready for dissemination. The <em>Analyse</em> phase includes preparing statistical content (commentary, technical notes, etc.), and ensuring that outputs are fit for purpose prior to dissemination to customers.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Institutions -&gt; Choose role</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>12</td>
            <td>Data Dissemination</td>
            <td>Dissemination is the release of information obtained through a statistical activity to users. Under the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below</strong>), <em>Disseminate</em> refers to the seventh phase, which involves all activities associated with assembling and releasing a range of static and dynamic products via a range of channels. These activities support customers in accessing and using the outputs released by the statistical organisation. It is made up of five subprocesses: Update output systems, Produce dissemination products, Manage release of dissemination products, Promote dissemination products, and Manage user support.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Institutions -&gt; Choose role</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Institutions -&gt; Choose role</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td>OECD Glossary, UNECE</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=534; https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model; https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=534; https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model; https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>13</td>
            <td>Data Plan</td>
            <td>A data plan is a framework, process and product aiming to improve the production and use of data and statistics. Data plans may apply at various geographic levels (global, regional, national or subnational). They may be cross-cutting or sector-specific, and may focus on one or several organisations. Data plans include strategic plans, such as the NSDS at national level or the CT-GAP at global level. Data plans also include operational plans. Examples include NSOs’ annual programmes of work, the statistical programmes of work of governmental organisations supporting the implementation of a sectoral policy, or the investment plan in data of local development partners. In ADAPT, relevant data plans are those that focus primarily on data systems generating data and statistics that are relevant to public policy.</td>
            <td>Menu bar</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>14</td>
            <td>Data Source</td>
            <td>In ADAPT, a data source refers to datasets for indicators, with specific reference time periods. An example is a Demographic and Health Survey with 2005 as a reference period.</td>
            <td>Menu bar</td>
            <td>Input from RR/FF</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>15</td>
            <td>Data source category</td>
            <td>The data source category is a classification of data sources according to the modality of data collection or compilation of the underlying datasets. In ADAPT, there are four such categories: a) <strong>Censuses and Surveys;</strong> b) <strong>Registers and Administrative Data;</strong> c) <strong>Other Data; and</strong> d) <strong>Mixed Sources (see Glossary for details on each term).</strong></td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
            <td>Modified from OECD glossary</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=6114">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=6114</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>16</td>
            <td>Data Validation</td>
            <td>Data validation is an activity aiming to verify whether the value of a data item comes from the given (finite or infinite) set of acceptable values. For instance, a geographic code (field), for example for a province in Nigeria, may be checked against a table of acceptable values for the field. Under the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below)</strong>, <em>Validate</em> is featured as part of the <em>Review and Validate</em> subprocess under the fifth phase titled <em>Process</em>, as well as under the <em>Validate outputs</em> subprocess under the sixth phase, named <em>Analyse</em>.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Institutions -&gt; Choose role</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td>OECD glossary, UNECE</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3408">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3408</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>17</td>
            <td>DDI</td>
            <td>The DDI is an international standard for describing the data produced by surveys and other observational methods in the social, behavioural, economic and health sciences. DDI is a free standard that is capable of documenting and managing different stages in the research data lifecycle, such as conceptualisation, collection, processing, distribution, discovery and archiving. Documenting data with DDI facilitates understanding, interpretation, and use, by people, software systems and computer networks.</td>
            <td>1) Data Sources -&gt; DDI Files and URL -&gt; DDI Files available?</td>
            <td>DDI Alliance</td>
            <td><a href="https://www.ddialliance.org/">https://www.ddialliance.org/</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>18</td>
            <td>Demand</td>
            <td>In ADAPT, demand refers to the data required by public policies. Data is seen as a product for which demand is expressed explicitly or implicitly, through such policies. ADAPT aims to improve the data market by better adapting data supplies to meet the demands.</td>
            <td>Core ADAPT concept</td>
            <td>Input from RR/FF</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>19</td>
            <td>Designing/Design</td>
            <td><em>Design</em> is the second phase described in the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below).</strong> It refers to development and design activities, and any associated practical research work required to define the statistical outputs, concepts, methodologies, collection instruments and<br />
operational processes. It includes all design elements required to define or refine the statistical products or services identified in a business case. This phase specifies all relevant metadata ready for use at a later stage in the statistical business process, as well as quality assurance procedures. Its subprocesses are: Design outputs; Design variable descriptions; Design collection; Design frame and sample; Design processing and analysis; and Design production systems and workflow.</td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>2) Data Sources -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>3) Under Data Plans -&gt; Description/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td>UNECE</td>
            <td><a href="https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model; https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf">https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/Generic+Statistical+Business+Process+Model; https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Generic-Statistical-Business-Process-Model.pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>20</td>
            <td>Disaggregation</td>
            <td>Disaggregation is the breakdown of observations, usually within a common branch of a hierarchy, to a more detailed level at which detailed observations are taken. With standard hierarchical classifications, statistics for related categories can be grouped or collated (aggregated) to provide a broader picture; otherwise, categories can be split (disaggregated) when finer details are required and made possible by reference to the codes given to primary observations. Disaggregation is a recurring theme in the UN Leave No One Behind agenda. The <strong>SDGs</strong> have defined their disaggregation levels as: income, sex, age, race, ethnicity, migration status, disability and geographic location. In ADAPT, various disaggregation categories are considered: Age, Country, Disease, Disability status, Level of Government, Type of Skill, etc.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Disaggregation and Frequency -&gt; Disaggregation</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Disaggregation and Frequency -&gt; Disaggregation</p></td>
            <td>OECD Glossary, UN</td>
            <td><a href="http://ggim.un.org/meetings/2017-4th_Mtg_IAEG-SDG-NY/documents/Session_3_Benjamin_Rae.pdf; https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/files/meetings/iaeg-sdgs-meeting-06/20170607_updated%20version-overview%20of%20standards%20of%20data%20disaggregation.pdf; https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=4337">http://ggim.un.org/meetings/2017-4th_Mtg_IAEG-SDG-NY/documents/Session_3_Benjamin_Rae.pdf; https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/files/meetings/iaeg-sdgs-meeting-06/20170607_updated%20version-overview%20of%20standards%20of%20data%20disaggregation.pdf; https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=4337</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>22</td>
            <td>Editor</td>
            <td>One of the four predefined roles available in ADAPT for all authenticated users (that is, users who are signed in). Editors may access all of the content in an ADAPT instance to view, edit or delete it. Editors may also create new content. However, they do not have access to tasks available through <em>Site Administration</em> and <em>Users</em>, with the exception that they are able to modify their account information.</td>
            <td>1) Users -&gt; Users Management</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>23</td>
            <td>Feasibility</td>
            <td>In general, feasibility refers to the state or degree of being easily or conveniently done. In ADAPT, this refers to the ease with which an indicator may be produced in the current period (the next three years) or in the near future (the next three to five years). A feasibility study is a type of analysis used in measuring the ability to and likelihood of successfully completing a project, including all relevant factors. It must account for factors that affect it, such as economic, technological, legal and scheduling factors. In ADAPT, a similar feasibility analysis for producing a new indicator can be done on the basis of the following dimensions: Feasibility of compilation and production, Additional technical assistance requirements, and Additional financial resource requirements.</td>
            <td>1) Indicator -&gt; Availability /Identification -&gt; No (Indicator available in the country) and No (proxy indicators) exist) -&gt; Feasibility</td>
            <td>Oxford English Dictionary, Investopedia</td>
            <td><a href="https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/feasibility; https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/feasibility-study.asp">https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/feasibility; https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/feasibility-study.asp</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>24</td>
            <td>Frequency</td>
            <td>Frequency is the rate at which an event occurs or is repeated. For instance, if a time series has a constant time interval between its observations, this interval determines the frequency of the time series (for example monthly, quarterly, yearly).</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Identification/Identification -&gt; Highest frequency of monitoring</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information -&gt; Disaggregation and Frequency -&gt; Frequency</p><p>3) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Disaggregation and Frequency -&gt; Frequency</p></td>
            <td>OECD glossary</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3655">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3655</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>25</td>
            <td>GAMSO</td>
            <td>The Generic Activity Model for Statistical Organizations (GAMSO) describes and defines the activities that take place within a typical statistical organisation. It extends and complements the GSBPM by adding further activities needed to support statistical production. It comprises three hierarchical levels. The top level includes, in turn, four broad activity areas: Strategy and leadership, Capability management, Corporate support and Production. The second level of Strategy and leadership contains the sub-activities of Capability management and Corporate support. The third level is a textual description of the second level. The Production activity area corresponds to the <strong>GSBPM (see Glossary, below)</strong> v5.0, where it is described in detail. The overarching GSBPM processes (quality and metadata management) have a cross-cutting nature and influence GAMSO in different layers.</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>UNECE</td>
            <td><a href="http://www1.unece.org/stat/platform/display/GAMSO/GAMSO+v1.0, https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/cros/system/files/GAMSO%20(1).pdf">http://www1.unece.org/stat/platform/display/GAMSO/GAMSO+v1.0, https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/cros/system/files/GAMSO%20(1).pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>26</td>
            <td>Geographic coverage</td>
            <td>This is the geographic area (for example, state, country or region) that is covered by a policy, logframe, indicator, data source, data plan or organisation.</td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>27</td>
            <td>Geographic level</td>
            <td>Geographic levels are a hierarchy of administrative regions in a given territory. These are uniquely defined in ADAPT for each instance. The various geographic levels possible include: <strong>Global -&gt; Regional -&gt; National -&gt; Sub-national</strong> (for example, Province -&gt; District)</td>
            <td>1) Site Administration -&gt; Geography -&gt; Levels</td>
            <td></td>
            <td><a href="http://support.paris21.org/adapt/adapt-concepts/glossary-terms/g">http://support.paris21.org/adapt/adapt-concepts/glossary-terms/g</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>28</td>
            <td>Global</td>
            <td>This means “worldwide”. In ADAPT, this is the highest geographic level.</td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p><p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p><p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>29</td>
            <td>GSBPM</td>
            <td>Endorsed by the UN, OECD and Eurostat, the Generic Statistical Business Process Model (GSBPM) is a means to describe statistics production in a general and process-oriented way. In other words, it describes and defines the set of business processes needed to produce official statistics. It provides a standard framework and harmonised terminology to help statistical organisations modernise their statistical production processes, as well as to share methods and components. The GSBPM can also be used to integrate data and metadata standards, as a template for process documentation, to harmonise statistical computing infrastructures, and to provide a framework for process quality assessment and improvement. It comprises three levels: Level 0, the statistical business process; Level 1, the eight phases of the statistical business process; and Level 2, the subprocesses within each phase.</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>UNECE</td>
            <td><a href="https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/I._Introduction">https://statswiki.unece.org/display/GSBPM/I._Introduction</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>30</td>
            <td>Impact</td>
            <td>The long-term effects produced by a policy. It is the fifth and highest level in the <strong>results chain framework (see Glossary, below)</strong> used by ADAPT.</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p><p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
            <td>OECD DAC</td>
            <td><a href="https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf">https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>31</td>
            <td>Implementing</td>
            <td>In general, Implementing refers to the process of putting a decision or plan into effect or execution. In ADAPT, it is featured in the context of an institutional role (for a policy or data plan) that usually follows <strong>Designing</strong> and precedes <strong>Monitoring &amp; Evaluation</strong>.</td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/ Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p><p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Institutions -&gt; Choose Role</p></td>
            <td>Oxford English Dictionary</td>
            <td><a href="https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/implementation">https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/implementation</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>32</td>
            <td>Indicator</td>
            <td>An indicator, or more specifically a statistical indicator, is the representation of statistical data for a specified time, place or any other relevant characteristic, corrected for at least one dimension (usually size) to allow for meaningful comparisons. It is a summary measure related to a key issue or phenomenon and derived from a series of observed facts. Indicators can be used to reveal relative positions or show positive or negative change. By themselves, indicators do not necessarily contain all aspects of development or change; however, they contribute significantly towards explaining them. They enable comparisons over time between, for instance, countries and regions, and in this way assist in gathering “evidence” for decision making.</td>
            <td>Menu bar</td>
            <td>EuroStat</td>
            <td><a href="http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Statistical_indicator">http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Statistical_indicator</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>33</td>
            <td>Inputs</td>
            <td>The financial, human and material resources used for a policy. It is the first and lowest level in the <strong>results chain framework (see Glossary, below)</strong> used by ADAPT.</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p><p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
            <td>OECD DAC</td>
            <td><a href="https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf">https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>34</td>
            <td>Organisations</td>
            <td>In ADAPT, Organisations describe the institutions involved and their roles and responsibilities relating to logframes (as either owners or contributors) or data sources (as designers, data disseminators or data collectors)</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Description/Organisations -&gt;</p><p>2) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Organisations -&gt; Choose role</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>35</td>
            <td>Levels</td>
            <td>This refers to the different hierarchies of the <strong>results chain framework</strong>, starting from Inputs -&gt; Activities -&gt; Outputs -&gt; Outcomes -&gt; Impacts</td>
            <td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p><p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>36</td>
            <td>Logframe</td>
            <td>A logframe (or logical framework) is a way of structuring the <strong>results chain framework</strong> of the <strong>M&amp;E</strong> elements of a policy or data plan.</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>37</td>
            <td>Mapping</td>
            <td><p>Mapping is the action of linking different objects (such as policies) over a common element (such as sectors) in ADAPT. Policies can be mapped on the basis of common sectors; common (or repeating) Indicators can be mapped across different (or same) policies or logframes; and data plans can be mapped based on common activities.</p><p><em><strong>(See Box 7 – Mapping in ADAPT)</strong></em></p></td>
            <td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Mapping</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Mapping -&gt; Reflection between demands/Reflection within demands</p><p>3) Data Plans -&gt; Mapping</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>38</td>
            <td>Means of Verification</td>
            <td>This is the expected source of information to measure the performance of an indicator.</td>
            <td>1) Data Plans -&gt; Track Progress -&gt; Indicators -&gt; Means of Verification</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>39</td>
            <td>Metadata</td>
            <td>Metadata is data that define and describe other data.</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>OECD Glossary</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=5136">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=5136</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>40</td>
            <td>Mixed (Data) Sources</td>
            <td>This data source category denotes data that are obtained using a combination of sources rather than purely one source, such as surveys, administrative records and satellite data.</td>
            <td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p><p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>41</td>
            <td>Monitoring and Evaluation (M&amp;E)</td>
            <td><p>M&amp;E is at the heart of evidence-based policy making. It provides a core set of tools that stakeholders can use to verify and improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of interventions at various stages of implementation, or, in other words, to focus on results. Monitoring and evaluation are synergistic processes.</p><p>Monitoring can be defined as the continuous process of collecting and analysing information to assess how well a project, program, or policy, is performing. It relies primarily on administrative data to track performance against expected results, make comparisons across programs, and analyse trends over time. Monitoring usually tracks inputs, activities, and outputs, though occasionally it includes outcomes as well. Monitoring is used to inform day-to-day management and decisions.<br />
Evaluation can be defined as periodic, objective assessments of a planned, ongoing, or completed project, program, or policy. Evaluations are used to answer specific questions, often related to design, implementation, and results.</p><p>It is the process whereby the activities undertaken by ministries, agencies and development organisations are assessed against a set of objectives or criteria. This may include an assessment of programme outputs, outcomes or impacts.</p></td>
            <td>Core ADAPT concept</td>
            <td>World Bank Group, OECD Glossary</td>
            <td><a href="https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/search.asp, https://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTHDOFFICE/Resources/5485726-1295455628620/Impact_Evaluation_in_Practice.pdf">https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/search.asp, https://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTHDOFFICE/Resources/5485726-1295455628620/Impact_Evaluation_in_Practice.pdf</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>42</td>
<td>Monitoring and Evaluation (M&amp;E) framework</td>
<td>Same as a <strong>results chain framework (See Glossary, below)</strong>, but with indicators.</td>
<td>Core ADAPT concept</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>43</td>
<td>National</td>
<td>In ADAPT, this is the third highest geographic level (after Global -&gt; Regional), indicating reach that is nationwide or relating to a single country.</td>
<td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p>
<p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>44</td>
<td>National Development Plan</td>
<td>A National Development Plan (NDP) is a structured nationwide public policy of a government that involves medium- or long-term priorities and the steps or activities necessary to achieve the objectives defined in them. It usually includes indicators to monitor progress towards the achievement of these objectives.</td>
<td>Policies menu bar</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>45</td>
<td>NSDS</td>
<td>A National Strategy for the Development of Statistics (NSDS) is a national framework, process and product for statistics development aiming to mainstream statistics into national policy and planning processes; producing information responding to the needs of the various users; mainstreaming sectors and other players into the NSS; coordinating the entire NSS; responding to data challenges; delivering a country-led data revolution; and building statistical capacity across the “statistical value chain”.  </td>
<td>Data Plans menu bar</td>
<td></td>
<td> </td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>46</td>
<td>Observation Value</td>
<td>The value of a particular variable.</td>
<td></td>
<td>SDMX</td>
<td><a href="http://sdmx.org/">SDMX (2016) (http://sdmx.org/)</a></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>47</td>
<td>Other Data (Sources)</td>
<td><p>Apart from traditional data sources such as censuses, surveys and administrative records, ADAPT also accounts for emerging types of data sources. Examples are:</p>
<p>- Satellite and <strong>remote sensing:</strong> the process of acquiring information about an object from a distance, that is, without physical contact. Remote sensing usually refers to image acquisition by means of satellite sensors or aerial photography).</p>
<p>- <strong>Scanner</strong> and sensor data: this includes, for example, detailed data on sales of consumer goods obtained by scanning the bar codes for individual products at electronic points of sale in retail outlets; the data can provide detailed information about the quantities, characteristics and values of goods sold, as well as their prices.</p>
<p>- social media and <strong>webscraping:</strong> a form of copying in which specific data is gathered and copied from the web, typically into a central local database or spreadsheet, for later retrieval or analysis.</p></td>
<td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
<td>OECD Glossary</td>
<td>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=4522; https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=5755</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>48</td>
<td>Outcomes</td>
<td>This captures the short- or medium-term effects of a policy. It is the fourth level in the <strong>results chain framework (see Glossary, below)</strong> used by ADAPT.</td>
<td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p>
<p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
<td>OECD DAC</td>
<td>https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>49</td>
<td>Outputs</td>
<td>Products, capital goods and services resulting in changes relevant to outcomes. It is the third level in the <strong>results chain framework (see Glossary, below)</strong> used by ADAPT.</td>
<td><p>1) Logframes -&gt; Levels</p>
<p>2) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels</p></td>
<td>OECD DAC</td>
<td>https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>50</td>
<td>Period of time</td>
<td><p>The population, statistical units and variables relate to specific times, which may be limited to a reference time point (for example, a specific day) or a reference period (such as a month, calendar year or fiscal year)</p>
<p>A period of time usually refers to a length of time with a start date and an end date. Therefore, these values are applicable to this duration or a “period of time”.</p></td>
<td><ol type="1">
<li><p>Indicators -&gt; Availability</p></li>
<li><p>Data Sources -&gt; Identification</p></li>
</ol></td>
<td></td>
<td><p><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period">https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period</a>;</p>
<p>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3104</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>50</td>
<td>Plan Content</td>
<td>In the context of ADAPT, this is similar to <em>Logframes</em> under <em>Data Plans</em>, where the activities, inputs, outputs, outcomes and impacts of the given data plan can be described.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>51</td>
<td>Point-in-time</td>
<td>Some data, such as population variables, relate to one specific time, a reference time point (for example, a specific day, or the population on 1 January). Therefore, these values refer to a “point in time”.</td>
<td><ol type="1">
<li><p>Indicators -&gt; Availability</p></li>
<li><p>Data Sources -&gt; Identification</p></li>
</ol></td>
<td></td>
<td><p><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period">https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period</a>;</p>
<p>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3104</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>51</td>
<td>Policy</td>
<td>A policy or a public policy is a formal plan of action adopted or proposed by a state organisation in the public interest to address society’s needs or problems. In ADAPT, these may refer to global, regional, national, subnational, sectoral, etc. development plans.</td>
<td>Menu bar</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>52</td>
<td>Priority</td>
<td>The different indicators required in a policy or plan may have differing degrees of importance or priority. ADAPT allows for assigning up to three levels of priority.</td>
<td><p>1) Site Administration -&gt; Libraries -&gt; Indicator Priorities</p>
<p>2) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand Information /Identification -&gt; Priority</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>53</td>
<td>Proxy Indicator</td>
<td>This is an indirect measure that approximates or represents a phenomenon in the absence of a direct measure. For example, for SDG Indicator 6.1.1 – “The proportion of population using safely managed drinking water services” – a proxy can be developed by using measurements including (i) the proportion of population below the poverty line; (ii) the proportion of population consuming clean water; and (iii) the proportion of population with access to improved sanitation.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>54</td>
<td>Reference Period</td>
<td><p>A reference period is the time period for which statistical results are collected or calculated and to which, as a result, these values refer. The time period may be either a calendar year (reference year), a fiscal year, a semester, a quarter, a month or even a day.</p>
<p>The reference period should be distinguished from the publication time, the period or point in time at which the statistical data are published. The publication year of statistical results may be significantly later than the reference year for which they were collected.</p>
<p>Population, statistical units and variables relate to specific times, which may be limited to a reference time point (such as a specific day) or a reference period (for example, a month, calendar year or fiscal year).</p></td>
<td><ol type="1">
<li><p>Data Sources -&gt; Identification</p></li>
</ol></td>
<td></td>
<td><p><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period">https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Glossary:Reference_period</a>;</p>
<p>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3104</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>54</td>
<td>Regional</td>
<td>In ADAPT, this is the second highest geographic level, below <em>Global</em> but above <em>National</em><strong>.</strong> It usually refers to a group of countries, such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) or sub-Saharan Africa.</td>
<td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p>
<p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>55</td>
<td>Registers and Administrative Data</td>
<td>This is a <strong>data source categor</strong>y (see <strong>Glossary, above</strong>) that refers to datasets collected or compiled primarily for administrative use and not for statistical purposes. Examples are tax records and social security data.</td>
<td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
<td>OECD Glossary</td>
<td>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=4328</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>56</td>
<td>Results-Chain Framework</td>
<td>The results chain framework (RCF) is the causal sequence for a development intervention (or, simply, policy) that stipulates the necessary sequence to achieve desired objectives, beginning with inputs, moving through activities and outputs, and culminating in outcomes and impacts. It describes the sequence of the underlying M&amp;E elements of a policy or data plan, and is captured in ADAPT under <em>Logframes</em>, for <em>Policies</em>, and <em>Data Plans</em> -&gt; <em>Plan Content</em>, for <em>Data Plans</em>.</td>
<td>Core ADAPT concept</td>
<td>OECD DAC</td>
<td>https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>57</td>
<td>SDG Global Indicators</td>
<td>This refers to the SDG Global Indicator framework and to the targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The framework consists of a set of 17 goals, 169 targets and 232 unique indicators that UN Member States are expected to use to frame their agendas and political policies as part of the 2030 Agenda.</td>
<td>1) Site administration -&gt; Libraries -&gt; Logframes -&gt; Global</td>
<td>UNSD</td>
<td>https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/indicators-list/</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>58</td>
<td>Sector Coverage</td>
<td>This refers to the sectors (health, education, defence, etc.) that are covered by a policy, logframe, indicator, data source or data plan. In ADAPT, sectors are categorised on the basis of <strong>COFOG (see Glossary, above).</strong></td>
<td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p>
<p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>59</td>
<td>Subscribers</td>
<td>One of the four predefined roles available in ADAPT for all authenticated users (users who are signed in). Subscribers can view all content; however, they do not have any other permissions. Subscribers can modify their account information (name, email and password). In ADAPT, all new users are assigned the Subscriber role by default.</td>
<td>1) Users -&gt; Users Management</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>60</td>
<td>Sub-national</td>
<td>In ADAPT, this is the fourth highest geographic level (after Global -&gt; Regional -&gt; National) pertaining to a certain aspect within a country. Examples are provinces, states, districts and villages.</td>
<td><p>1) Policies -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>2) Logframes -&gt; Description/Description -&gt; Sector Coverage</p>
<p>3) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>4) Indicators -&gt; Availability/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>5) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p>
<p>6) Data Plans -&gt; Description/Identification -&gt; Geographic Coverage</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>61</td>
<td>Supply</td>
<td>In ADAPT, supply refers to the state of data availability, directly linked with past, present and future data productions. ADAPT aims to improve the data market by better adapting data supply to meet demands.</td>
<td>Core ADAPT concept</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>62</td>
<td>Survey</td>
<td>A survey is a <strong>data source category</strong> (see <strong>Glossary,</strong> above) that refers to an investigation of the characteristics of a given population by collecting data from a sample of that population and estimating its characteristics through the systematic use of statistical methodology. It covers any activity that collects or acquires statistical data. In ADAPT, various types of surveys are considered: household or individual surveys, enterprise and establishment surveys, community-based surveys, etc.</td>
<td><p>1) Indicators -&gt; Description and Demand information -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>2) Indicators -&gt; Availability -&gt; Data Sources -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p>
<p>3) Data Sources -&gt; Description -&gt; Choose Data Source Category</p></td>
<td>OECD Glossary</td>
<td>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=2620</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>63</td>
<td>Unit of measurement</td>
<td>A unit of measurement is the actual unit in which the associated values are measured. In ADAPT, indicators can be entered in various units of measurements, displayed under <em>Site Administration</em> -&gt; <em>List Management</em>.</td>
<td><p>1) Site administration -&gt; List Management-&gt; Unit of Measurement</p>
<p>2) Indicators -&gt; Description and demand information/Identification-&gt; Unit of Measurement</p></td>
<td>OECD Glossary</td>
<td>https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=2806</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>64</td>
<td>Values</td>
<td>Values refer to the actual names of the specific goals, impacts, objectives (or any other levels of the <strong>results chain framework</strong>) articulated under <em>Logframes</em>, for <em>Policies</em>, and under <em>Data Plans</em> -&gt; <em>Plan Content</em>, for <em>Data Plans.</em> For example, a value for SDG Goals may be “1 – End poverty in all its forms everywhere”. The number of values for each level of the results chain framework may also be found under <em>Logframes</em> -&gt; <em>Levels</em>.</td>
<td><p>1) Logframes -&gt;Values</p>
<p>2) Logframes -&gt; Levels -&gt; Values 3) Data Plans -&gt; Plan Content -&gt; Levels -&gt; Values</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
