## 5.2   The results chain framework in ADAPT <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

## 5.2.1 Enforcing a common terminology <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

A results chain framework articulates the different levels or stages of
results that an intervention – a project, programme or policy – is
expected to deliver. It typically encompasses inputs and activities that
lead to intermediary outputs or outcomes, which in turn are followed by
longer-term objectives (generally referred to as “impact”). Thus, the
framework describes the essential elements of the logical and expected
cause-effect relationships among inputs, intermediate results or
outputs, and impact.

There is a diverse range of results chain frameworks, with methodologies
that may not always be harmonised. The [OECD
DAC](https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf)
defines the results chain as “\[t\]he causal sequence for a development
intervention that stipulates the necessary sequence to achieve desired
objectives, beginning with *inputs*, moving through *activities* and
*outputs*, and culminating in *outcomes*, *impacts*.” A *result* in
itself could be the output, outcome or impact of the development
intervention, depending upon the timeframe under consideration. Figure
71 provides an illustration of the framework.

><a id="figure84" class="figure-title">Figure 84: OECD results chain framework</a>
><img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image127.png" class="figures" />

Source:
[OECD](https://www.oecd.org/dac/peer-reviews/Development-Results-Note.pdf)

The results chain forms a part of the broader results management
process, which includes planning, budgeting, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation. It provides a model that enables policy-makers and
planners to think about resource allocation and for the causal link
between inputs, activities and desired certain changes to be produced.
In ADAPT, the results chain for policies is captured in the Logframe
menu, while the results chain for data plans is available under the
*Data Plans* menu, within the *Plan Content* subfield. Therefore, ADAPT
adopts the terminology proposed by the OECD.

In practice, plans and policy documents do not use the exact same
terminology as the OECD-DAC definitions. In this case, for comparison
purposes, it might still be important to examine the relevant results
chain framework and attempt to map it with the underlying ADAPT logical
framework that follows OECD-DAC.
