## 5.4 Bulk Upload feature for indicators <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

**In a nutshell**

When it is necessary to upload large volumes of data, ADAPT V1.1.1
offers a *Bulk Upload* feature that relies upon Microsoft Excel. This
functionality may be used to input indicators into ADAPT, given the
usually large volume of data that this section involves.

Bulk uploading involves the following six stages:

1.  Create the *Policy* or *Logframe* associated with the indicators.
    Whenever there is a logframe attached, then the results chain needs
    to be created along with it. When indicators have no primary link,
    no other elements need to be created.

2.  Download the spreadsheet template for data entry, which is based on
    the primary link (if there is one).

3.  Input data into the first sheet of the downloaded template in
    appropriate columns, using the keys or ID provided in the other
    sheets.

4.  Upload the compiled file.

5.  Validate the compiled file.

6.  Import the validated data.

**How to proceed**

The following steps provide a quick walkthrough of the bulk upload
feature for indicator data.

After logging into ADAPT, click on *Site Administration*. Then, go to
*Bulk Upload* -&gt; *Indicators*. These two steps are shown in the
figures below.

<span id="_Toc7208894" class="anchor"></span>Figure 91: Accessing the
Bulk Upload feature

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image135.png" style="width:4.49166in;height:2.24882in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image39.png" style="width:4.49359in;height:2.98959in" />

Clicking on *Indicators* results in the following screen:

<span id="_Toc7208895" class="anchor"></span>Figure 92: Bulk-uploading
indicators – a first glance

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image136.png" style="width:4.4864in;height:2.24619in" />

There are three tabs on top of the resulting form, representing the
three steps involved in the bulk-upload process. Step 1 consists in
downloading the Microsoft Excel template to fill in the data to be
uploaded and imported; in Step 2, the Microsoft Excel file is filled in
or updated with data and uploaded; and Step 3 is for validation and
importing the data.

Now, we will explore the step in further detail.

<u>Step 1</u>: <u>Download template</u>

The primary link associated with the indicators should be chosen. The
options are *Logframes*, *Policies* and *No Links*, as shown below.

<span id="_Toc7208896" class="anchor"></span>Figure 93: What to enter in
*Step 1* – *Download template*

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image137.png" style="width:4.48718in;height:2.24657in" />

Let us take the example of logframes.

If the primary link type chosen is *Logframe*, then the subsequent
fields will offer options to select the language and the logframes
available in the instance. A similar process is followed in other
choices. This is illustrated in the figures below:

<span id="_Toc7208897" class="anchor"></span>Figure 94: Choosing the
link and language

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image138.png" style="width:4.44281in;height:2.22436in" />

After selecting the language and the logframe, click on the *Download*
button to download the Microsoft Excel file. These two activities are
illustrated in Figure 82 below.

<span id="_Toc7208898" class="anchor"></span>Figure 95: Downloading the
Microsoft Excel file

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image139.png" style="width:4.40385in;height:2.20485in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image140.png" style="width:4.46154in;height:2.20605in" />

Open the Microsoft Excel file. For the example outlined above, it will
look like this:

<span id="_Toc7208899" class="anchor"></span>Figure 96: The downloaded
Microsoft Excel workbook

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image141.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:0.97708in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image142.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:1.07153in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image143.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:1.16319in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image144.png" style="width:3.44348in;height:1.14936in" />

The downloaded workbook contains the data previously entered in the
ADAPT instance.

The first sheet of the workbook contains multiple columns starting with
“Id”, “Level key” and “User-defined ID” etc.

The column – “Id”, contains machine-generated codes for the indicators.
The column – “Level key”, contains the level of the indicators as per
the results-chain already defined in the ADAPT instance (one can view
the details of the results-chain in the sheet named *Level)*. The column
– “Hierarchy*”* contains the serial numbers of the indicators previously
entered.

**Note!** To <u>add a new</u> indicator in the template, one **must**
fill-in the columns - “Level key” and “Hierarchy*”*. “Level key” values
can be repetitive but values in “Hierarchy” can only be unique. The
column “Name of indicator” can have repetitive values.

**Do not fill-in any values in Column A (“Id”).**

In some columns such as “Sector coverage”, “Disaggregation” and
“Geographic coverage” etc., multiple values can be entered separated by
semicolon (;).

For other columns such as “Availability – Organisation", values are
entered in pairs. In such columns, you must enter the codes in pairs
with a pipe symbol (\|) as a connector (in this case, between
organisation and its role).

e.g. In the UNSD-Nepal instance of ADAPT, for now, the code for "CBS" is
1306 and the code for the role of "Data compilation" is 5228. Therefore,
the entry in the column “Availability – Organisation" would be
1306\|5228 for the CBS with the role of data compiler for a specific
indicator.

To fill in other columns, please refer to the other sheets in the
workbook.

<span id="_Toc7208900" class="anchor"></span>Figure 97: Sheets in the
downloaded Microsoft Excel workbook

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image145.png" style="width:6.26806in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image146.png" style="width:6.26806in" />

**Remember!** Data should be entered only in the sheet named
*Indicators*.

Save the Microsoft Excel file after adding or updating data. In the
example below, an indicator called “TestIndicator” is added at level
3 833. We will now see how it is uploaded and imported into ADAPT.

<span id="_Toc7208901" class="anchor"></span>Figure 98: Adding a test
indicator in the downloaded Microsoft Excel workbook

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image147.png" style="width:5.59158in;height:4.99359in" />

This brings us to step 2 of the Bulk Upload process.

<u>Step 2</u>: <u>Upload File</u>

Going back to the ADAPT screen, on the next tab, *Step 2 – Upload file*,
select the destination of the new or updated data by selecting the
primary link, language and the specific primary link (here, *Logframe*).
Then, select the Microsoft Excel file with the new or updated data, by
clicking on *Browse.* Once the file has been chosen, click on the
*Upload* button. The process is shown below.

<span id="_Toc7208902" class="anchor"></span>Figure 99: What to enter in
Step 2 – *Browse* and *Upload* file

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image148.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image149.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

The progress of the upload will be shown as in Figure 87.

<span id="_Toc7208903" class="anchor"></span>Figure 100: Uploading in
progress

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image150.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

<u>Step 3</u>: <u>Validation & Import</u>

Once the file has been successfully uploaded (when the progress bar
shows “100%”), step 3 will automatically start. It will result in the
following screen:

<span id="_Toc7208904" class="anchor"></span>Figure 101: What to enter
in *Step 3 – Validation & Import*

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image151.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

Note the *Number of indicators* count at the top right of the screen.
Also, note the number of new records within the brackets shown next to
the option *Append only new records* (which is preselected by default).
Note that there are no validation errors; therefore, the *Import* button
is active. Clicking on the *Import* button will lead to the following
confirmation screen.

<span id="_Toc7208905" class="anchor"></span>Figure 102: Importing
indicator data into ADAPT

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image152.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

Once you click on the *OK* button, the breakdown of indicators is
provided as follows. The only additional indicator is shown against the
*Number of indicators* created option. As there were no updates, the
number next to the *Number of indicators* updated is zero.

<span id="_Toc7208906" class="anchor"></span>Figure 103: Viewing the
recently imported data

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image153.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />

In ADAPT, the uploaded indicator is now visible, as shown below. Note
the serial number, which is automatically generated. Further data can
then be input following the above procedure, indicator by indicator.

<span id="_Toc7208907" class="anchor"></span>Figure 104: The imported
data is now integrated!

<img src="ADAPTmedia\media\image154.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.13819in" />
