## 5.5   IT/Security-related information <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

**Database-driven application**

ADAPT is a database-driven web application built using MySQL, PHP and
JavaScript, wherein multiple users are able access the tool
simultaneously in a distributed environment that is connected through
the Internet.

**Distributed solution architecture**

ADAPT distribution is maintained centrally. The central repository
allows users to access and clone the latest version of centrally
managed library items, such as the metadata of globally required SDG
indicators.

**Cloud-based**

ADAPT is based on a cloud infrastructure and delivered as
software-as-a-service. It is designed to take advantages of cloud
computing. For example, it has a rapid deployment time, as no additional
hardware or software installation is required from the user. User access
occurs instantaneously, without delays; the shared code-base facilitates
faster upgrades; and given the seamless, dynamic expansion of computing
resources, the software can be scaled-up quickly, with usage and/or
users.

**Hosting and domains**

The hosting of ADAPT instances is offered by PARIS21.

Each instance of an authorised ADAPT is identified through a subdomain
of the URL adapt.paris21.org. The subdomains follow the ISO 3166-1
alpha-2 codes, which are two-letter country codes defined in ISO 3166-1,
part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO). For example, in the case of the
United Republic of Tanzania, the ADAPT URL is tz.adapt.paris21.org.

For authorised ADAPT instances at the second level, below the country
level, an alpha-3 code are used. This is represented as the alpha-2 code
for the country, followed by up to three characters (including numbers).
For example, in the case of Jalisco, Mexico, the URL for ADAPT is
mx-jal.adapt.paris21.org.

Sandbox instances of ADAPT are available at the URL
adapt**sbx**.paris21.org. In this case, each instance of ADAPT has a
subdomain of two-digit numbers, which are randomly generated by the
system upon creation by the users.

**Back-up and recovery**

To protect and restore ADAPT and the data contained therein, regular
backups are taken at the cloud infrastructure level. Lost data can be
recovered by the central administration.

**Supported browsers**

ADAPT supports the latest stable versions of the following browsers:
Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer.
